# connectFour
Replicating ConnectFour and experimenting with different strategies for building artificial players. I am avoiding any
material online on the subject in order to avoid spoiling the challenge for myself.

## Environment
This project uses Python 3.10 and venv, with all packages and dependencies stored in the requirements.txt file.
Snakeviz was used to visualise performance profiles generated by cProfile.

## Files
main.py - Runs a specified number of simulations for two specified move selection functions including logging and profiling
    in order to compare different strategies. Set logging to INFO to see the results of each game, set to DEBUG to see
    each move. Logging is outputted to a results.log file.
gameBoard.py - Stores the current state of the gameboard, the results afterwards, checks legality of moves and if the 
    game is over
heuristicAI.py - Contains functions for simple computer play which completes obvious victories and blocks obvious 
    opportunities for its opponent. There is significant overlap in the code of this module and the gameBoard class
    as both are checking for victory. But due to separations in concerns and future changes they must be separated.
notes.txt - Contains win rates for different combinations of playing strategies and other observations during development

performance_profile.prof - Generated by main.py to help identify which functions likely have performance issues
results.log - Generated by main.py to assist in debugging

## Future Considerations
* Unit Tests for gameBoard.py
* MinMax Algorithm Implementation (requires scoring for each move, which requires some guidance)
* Implement effect storage of results to enable analysis:
  * Investigate most frequent win coords, win rates, average moves etc (Decide on summary statistics)
  * Check internet for human games results
* Check how heuristicAI disadvantages itself by going first
  * Implement check to see if "best move" will enable opponent victory
  * Change heuristicAI to bias centre moves over left most moves

